jreplace


Replace the keywords in a word .docx template by the content
of the columns with the same names in a specific row(s) of an excel sheet.

syntax:  py jreplace xlsx docx rownumber1 rownumber2 ...

The  keywords used in the word template must correspond exactly to columns
in the first row of the excel sheet.

The first  sheet in the excel document will be used.


Installation on Windows (command line)

The code has been tested in python 3.x, which is required. It also
depends on the libraries sys (included by default), python-docx,
and openpyxl. You may need to install lxml manually, required by python-docx,
as I have found on my Windows7 laptop.

1. copy the software to your computer
   -- create a folder, e.g. in your desktop "C:\Users\(username)\Desktop\jreplace",
   where (username) should be replaced by your username
   and copy the files to it
2. install python 3.x
   -- Download to the installer (it maybe .exe or .msi) froma python.org and run it. 
   -- Open a terminal and test whether python is in the path (typing 'python' or 'py')
   -- If the previous steps failed (otherwise you should ignore this step), you need to add python to your path (Control panel/system/ Advanced options/ enviroment variables/Path/
     Add path/ C:\Python3x\
     Add path/ C:\Python2x\Scripts\
     Copy the jreplace.py file to C:\Python3x\Scripts\ (so now it will be in the path)        
    
3. use pip to install lmxl  
   -- open a command prompt terminal (use the start button and search for "cmd")
   -- type: python3 -m pip install lxml (in some cases this should be 'py -m pip install lxml')
   -- Jeimy's note: it doesnt appear directly. Open C:\Python27\Scripts\pip2.7.exe and then type pip install lxml
4. use pip to install python-docx
   -- make sure you are online
   -- type: python3 -m pip install python-docx (in some cases this should be 'py -m pip install python-docx')
5. use pip to install openpyxl
   -- make sure you are still online
   -- type: python3 -m pip install openpyxl (in some cases this should be 'py -m pip install openpyxl')


Installation on Ubuntu/Linux (includes WSL -- Windows Subsystem for Linux)

1. download the software using git (install git with 'sudo apt install git'
if git is not already available) and install in your home folder

  -- change to your home folder typing: cd
  -- install typing:  git clone https://github.com/carlosallende/jreplace

2. usually python3 is preinstalled but you need to install install pip3
  (if not, install python3 in the same way as described for pip3, prior
   to installing pip3), and the auxiliary packages needed by jreplace

  -- type: sudo apt update
  -- type: sudo apt install python3-pip
  -- type: python3 -m pip install lxml python-docx openpyxl

3. test that it works

  -- type: python3  ~/jreplace.py

  and the program should reply giving you usage hints (which arguments are
  needed).


Test

Open a windows/linux command prompt terminal (see step 3 in the installation
instructions above), change directories to where the software and example
files are, and try generating documents with the attached test files

-If you have followed the instructions for installing in the windows command line (MSDOS) you can change the path to the jreplace folder in your Desktop typing:
   CD C:\Users\(username)\Desktop\jreplace\

-If you have followed the instructions for installing in Ubuntu (linux) you can change the path to the jreplace folder in your home typing:
   cd  
   cd jreplace

Now test the software typing:
python3 jreplace.py proyectos.xlsx  clausula.docx  4

This should replace the keywords present in the template clausula
with the content of the cells under the same header in the 4th row
of the data  base proyectos.xlsx, creating anew document clausula_0004.docx

Try generating multiple documents at once, for example

python3 jreplace.py proyectos.xlsx clausula.docx 5 2 7 14


Carlos Allende Prieto, October 2016
Carlos Allende Prieto, July 2018
Jeimy Guarin Poveda, November 2018
Carlos Allende Prieto, June 2020 -- updated to python3
Carlos Allende Prieto, March 2023 -- added instructions for a linux install
Carlos, Jan 2024 -- updated instructions to use python3 -m pip instead of pip3

